BOOK XXXIV. xix. 63-70

since he lived at . . . in Thessaly where his works
have remained in concealment, although these
writers' own testimony puts him on a level with
Polycleitus, Myron and Pythagoras. Tbey praise
his Larisa, his Spintharus the Five-bout Champion,
and his Apollo. Others however are of opinion
that the cause of his lack of celebrity is not the
reason mentioned but his having devoted himself
entirely to the studios established by King Xerxes
and King Darius

Praxiteles although more successful and therefore Praxiteles-

more celebrated in marble, nevertheless also made
some very beautiful works in bronze: the Rape of
Persephone, also The Girl Spinning,‘² and a Father
Liber or Dionysus, with a figure of Drunkenness and
also the famous Satyr, known by the Greek title
Periboetos meaning ‘Celebrated,' and the statues
that used to be in front of the Temple of Happiness,
and the Aphrodite, which was destroyed by fire when
the temple of that goddess was burnt down in the

fl. c. 370 .¹ .

reign of Claudius, and which rivalled the famous , -

Aphrodite, in marble, that is known all over the

, world3 also A &Voman Bestowing a lVreath, A

XVoman Putting a Bracelet on her Armss' Autumn,
Harmodius and Aristogeiton who slew the tyrant ⁶——
the last pieced carried off by Xerxes King of the
Persians but restored to the Athenians by Alexander
the Great after his conquest of Persia. Praxiteles
also made a youthful Apollo called in Greek the
Lizard-Slayer e because he is waiting with an arrow

‘¹ But the group carried off was by Antenor, and its
restoration is attributed also to Seleucus I, and to Antiochus I.
See note on pp. 256-257.

⁶ Degenerate copies of this still exist.

179

480 ,Bo
331 1300.

