BOOK XXXIV. xm. 29—xv. 32

stood opposite the temple of Jupiter Stator in the
forecourt of Tarquinius Superbus's palace was the
statue of Valeria, daughter of Publicola, the consul,
and that she alone had escaped and had swum
across the Tiber‚ the other hostages who were being
sent to Porsena having been made away with by a
stratagem of Tarquin.

XIV. Lucius Piso has recorded that, in the

consulship of Marcus Aemilius and the second of

Gaius Popilius, the censors Publius Cornelius Scipio
and Marcus Popilius caused all the statues round the
forum of men who had held office as magistrates to be
removed excepting those that had been set up by a
resolution of the people or the Senate, while the
statue which Spurius Cassius, who had aspired to
monarchy, had erected in his own honour before the
temple of the Earth was actually melted down by
censors: obviously the men of those days took
precautions against ambition in the matter of statues
also. Some decl-amatory utterances made by Cato
during his censorship are extant protesting against
the erection in the Roman provinces of statues to
women 3 yet all the same he was powerless to prevent
this being done at Rome also: for instance there is
the statue of Cornelia the mother of the Gracchi
and daughter of the elder Scipio Africanus. This
represents her in a sitting position and is remarkable
because there are no sti-aps to the shoes3 it stood
in the public colonnade of Metellus, but is now in
Octavia's Buildings.a

XV. The first statue publicly erected at Rome by
foreigners was that in honour of the tribune of the
people Gaius Aelius, for having introduced a law
against Sthennius Stallius the Lucanian who had

151

158 B.C.

485 13.c.

184 B.O.

